#
Sharp.
x
Double sharp.
alteration
A local modification of a note pitch (bb, b, #, x) by substracting or adding intervals, namely (-2, -1, 1, 2).
alto
The second high voice in a chord.
augmente
Characterizes an interval where the alterations differ by one, such as C and D#
b
Flat.
bass
The last voice in a chord, of lowest pitch.
chiffrage
An indication of a particular chord structure. 5 denotes a chord in its fundamental structure. 6 is a sixth and 6/4 a sixth-and-quart.
chord
A group of notes, 4 in classical harmony, to be played simultaneously.
counterpoint
The science of combining different melodies.
degree
The position of the bass of a chord with respect to the tonic, noted with roman numerals.  The tonic is I, the dominant V and the leading tone VII.
diminished
One interval below minor for thirds, or below perfect for fifths and fourths.
do
(See note).
dominant
The second most important note in a tonality, after the tonic, usually associated with a feeling of tension. It is one fifth above the tonic, e.g. G is the dominant of C.
duration
The length of a note.  It is measured in fractions of the longest one, a 'ronde' or 'whole note'.
fa
(See note).
flat
The alteration b that lowers a pitch by 1 interval. Can be doubled as bb.
fourth
A distance of 3 tones, e.g., between C and F.
fifth
A distance of 4 tones, e.g., between C and G.
foreign
A note or intervalle that is not compatible with the current tonality. This is specially an issue in the minor mode, in which an ascending second must belong to the ascendant melodic mode, while a descending one belongs to the descendant one.
fundamental
The simplest chord structure. It uses notes from the bass, its major or minor third, according to the current tonality, and its perfect fifth.
harmony
The art of chord progression, or the 'vertical' structure of music. It characterizes music, together wih melody and rythm.
interval
The distance between two consecutive keys, independently of color, on a keyboard.
inversion
The structure of a chord when not in its fundamental state.
la
(See note).
leading
The note that leads to the tonic, such as B in C Major. Also called the sensible.
major
The most common scale, based on the sequence {2, 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 1} of intervals.
melody
The art of tune progression, or the 'horizontal' structure of music. It characterizes music, together with harmony and rythm.
mi
(See note).
minor
The second most common scale, based on the sequence {2, 1, 2, 2, 1, 3, 1} of intervals.
mode
A property of tonality. It can either be major or minor.
note
An abstract and approximate representation of a sound characteristics: pitch and duration.  Notes can be denoted by letters (A, B, C, D, E, F, G) or names (Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Si).
octave
A two-note chord made separated by 12 intervals, such as C and its higher sibling C.
perfect
Not diminished. This is applicable to fifths or fourths.
pitch
A measure of how high or low a sound is. For instance, a flute has a high pitch, while a tuba as a low one.
re
(See note).
rythm
The structure of time progression. It characterizes music, together with melody and harmony.
scale
The sequence of intervals that defines a mode.
second
A distance of 1 interval, e.g. between C and D.
sensible
(See leading tone.)
sharp
The alteration # that raises a pitch by 1 interval. Can be doubled as X.
si
(See note).
sixth
The first inversion of a chord, e.g., E-G-C instead of the fundamental C-E-G.
sixth-and-fourth
The second inversion of a chord, e.g. G-C-E instead of C-E-G.
sol
(See note).
soprano
The first voice in a chord, of highest pitch.
species
Caracterizes the counterpoint. First species only allow note over note melodies. Second species allows two notes against one note, and so on.
subdominant
The note before the dominant, e.g. F is the subdominant for C.
third
A distance of 2 tones, e.g. between C and D, corresponding to 4 intervals in the major mode and 3 in the minor mode.
tenor
The third high voice in a chord.
tonality
Defines the important notes in music, in particular the tonic and dominant, together with the mode.
tone
Either one or two intervals, depending on the mode.
tonic
The most important note in a tonality, usually associated with a feeling of rest.
voice
A countinuous stream of notes. They are four voices in traditional harmony: soprano, alto, tenor and bass.
